[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's do some more
Save As, moving on to Exercise 8,
8.server.js.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
8.html.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
in 8.html, I want you to take out
that console.log statement, and
I want you to do something different.
What I want you to do is, var,
or I'm sorry, I want you to do,
io.connect.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
here in the connect statement,
you just need to do a /.
And the return value from
our connect statement,
we're gonna call var socket = io.connect.
>> Kyle Simpson: By the way,
this looks like a path, but
we're not putting a path in here
because it's not really a URL path.
It's a name spacing thing path for socket
name spacing, so we're just gonna use
the slash namespace.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now, I want
you to listen for the connected event.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
console.log out that you've connected.
>> Kyle Simpson: Might be connection.
Might have to test this and see.
Sometimes I forget the server,
the names that they make.
All right, there's one last
change that we wanna do here,
which is that we need a handler for
our incoming socket connections.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna say,
>> Kyle Simpson: io.on,
this one I believe is connection, and
we're gonna say handleIO.
It doesn't matter what you call it,
but I'm gonna call mine handleIO.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's check against
my solutions files to see
if I'm getting off track
here.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep,
it's called connection.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
so every time we get a new
incoming websocket connection,
it's gonna call this function in the exact
same way that every time we got a new
incoming HTTP,
it called our other handler.
This one is our handler for
incoming socket connections.
And in fact, will be passed in
a socket object which represents
our connection with
some particular client.
So if ten people connect to our website,
this will get called ten times
with ten different sockets, okay?
>> Speaker 2: Can you do the HTML?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, just one sec.
All right, now the last thing
that we wanna do here is
also listen for,
>> Kyle Simpson: The disconnect
event,
>> Kyle Simpson: On
the server side,
>> Kyle Simpson: And
we'll say client disconnected.
>> Kyle Simpson: But
here, we'll say client
connected.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
our handleIO is kind of
our connection handler,
that's when a connection is established.
And then our disconnect is an event that's
gonna fire whenever the client gets
disconnected.
>> Kyle Simpson: On the client side,
we have a connection.
We can also listen for disconnection.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right, do you see
what you needed to see there in the HTML?
>> Kyle Simpson: If I
haven't gotten my event names mixed up,
we should now be
able to come back to our console,
stop this 7.js, and
start up 8.server.js,
>> Kyle Simpson: Oops.
>> Kyle Simpson: What did I do wrong?
>> Kyle Simpson: Saw a little thing that I
didn't catch here.
Okay, so, IO needs to be,
rather than having those separated out,
the better way to do this is to have
it be the actual all-in-one line.
Cuz IO needs to be the result
of that listen call,
rather than the result of
the socket IO library.
[COUGH] All right.
>> Speaker 3: Why is that?
Can you repeat the last point?
>> Kyle Simpson: It's just a peculiarity
of socket IO that their
listen command returns back
a different object than
the actual socket IO module, so.
We wanted our IO to point out the actual
socket IO library, rather than the module
itself.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
now, we should be able
to run node 8.server.js.
And we come back here to our browser, and
we change /7 to /8.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
I got client connected.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
then if I were to go away for, oops, I
forgot to change my HTML page to actually
say 8, so that's gonna be
awfully confusing, isn't it?
Okay, but what if I refresh my page?
We can see in my server logs that
the client was disconnected and
then it reconnected.
So we know the server side
of the events is working,
but we don't see the server side of our
client events working, so let me see,
I think it might be.
>> Speaker 4: I got connect and
disconnect for the.
>> Kyle Simpson: Are you
saying that?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so
the connected event fired.
Now what happens if we were to kill
the server?
>> Kyle Simpson: We should see
the disconnected event fire in the client.
Everybody see that?
And this is socket IO trying to
reconnect cuz reconnect is built in.
Now [COUGH] it should be obvious to you
that we're getting a whole bunch of
really verbose logging that's going on,
and that's pretty annoying.
So let's turn off some of that
logging cuz we don't need any of that
kind of stuff going on in our server.
And just as a shortcut,
you can open up the solutions folder,
open up 8.server.js, and it should
have it down there at the bottom.
Nope, it's not there.
It's gonna be in 9, I think.
It's kind of annoying how
verbose it is by default.
Let's see if it's in 9.
>> Speaker 5: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: What's that
>> Speaker 5: On line 60,
in 9.server.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep, I'm just gonna copy
that whole thing over, this is just
the way that socket IO configures itself.
So we don't need all of this stuff,
but it's not a bad idea
to have these things in there, minifying
the socket IO client, sending out etags,
but the important one is this log level 1,
reducing all that logging.
So, if we save that and
restart our server,
now we'll notice that it's only gonna
get messages that we are logging out,
it's not gonna have all that extra
verbosity to the socket IO logging.